# UniFood Sales Prediction Project

## Introduction
This project tries to showcase the impact of several independent variables on the income generated by Ilia State University canteen called UniFood.

UniFood is owned by the university and represents a unit responsible for providing quality and affordable catering service to the students and employees as well as to anyone entering the university area. As a business operated by the state entity, in the circumstances of the restrictive law and resources, the average sales revenue for each semester reaches 400,000 GEL, thus thorough planning becomes essential.

The data used for the project is real and derived from the actual database. The weather data is collected from [Meteostat](https://meteostat.net/).

The SQL Server Query file `Data Selection from Database` shows the data selection techniques used for filtering and obtaining only the necessary data for the project from SQL database.

The IPYNB file with python code serves for connection to the SQL Database and importing the above-mentioned data together with the weather data (.xlsx) into a single dataframe in the Jupyter Notebook environment using `sqlalchemy` and `pandas` libraries.

The IPYNB file with further python code continues to the main purpose of the project - Training a linear regression model, creating and training the model, model evaluation (checking coefficients), calculating the root mean square error and predictions from the model - all using `sklearn` and `numpy` libraries.

## Overview
The coefficients for the variables show the dependence of the total amount generated each day on the variables. While keeping all other features fixed, a one unit increase of each will mean the increase (or decrease) of the generated amount correspondingly to the coefficient.

- The total amount for a day will increase by 7.7 GEL if the count of transactions will increase by one unit, while it will be increased by 218.9 GEL for the increment of average bill amount by 1 GEL.
- The students count (for a day at the university) coefficient might indicate that it does not affect much the daily amount, but we should consider that the increase of student count does not come by one or two; usually, it comes by a few dozens, then it makes more sense.
- The average temperature increase for a day negatively affects the daily income; this can be counted reasonable as in warmer weather more students spend their time outside. This could indicate the need for expansion of the cafeteria seats outside.
- The relatively low figure of the root mean square error (≈ 62) indicates how well our regression model predicts the dependent variable - total amount generated daily.
